hello in this segment we're going to
cover automotive chains the different
styles and their their appropriate uses
basically we have two different style
chains and there's a lot of different
variations out on the market of these
chains but it's just basically two
different styles that are are most
commonly referred to as automotive
chains and that being the cable chain
and in this the standard chain and then
you've got various combinations of
mixtures of both and that the basic
difference is the standard chain is made
as as you can see all made of chain it's
much heavier built a lot of times you'll
have a welded on portion through the
center links of a hardened material to
give a better bite into ice and it also
gives a longer-lasting
because it's a hardened material
generally it's got a much more
aggressive bite to it a lot better
traction capabilities but it's also much
bigger much heavier and as you can see
in size and design that this wrap around
your tire is going to give you a much
rougher ride if you're on a smooth
surface then per se the cable chain next
to it and these are commonly used mostly
on trucks and automotive as well if you
live in a situation where you're gonna
be driving in the snow and bad weather
eight or nine months out of the year on
unpaved roads on maintained roads then
these are definitely a better fit for
you this the actual change themselves
will last longer and give you more
mileage and a lot more aggressive bite
but for people for temporary driving
uses light cars that's where the cable
chains come in there are much lighter
design they don't add as much size
requirements as far as extra clearance
in the wheel wells and because of their
design of cables versus chains that are
much smoother and much quieter so it
gives you a lot better ride quality than
the chains would but it suffers a little
bit in the traction capabilities this
particular cable chain here is one of
the real high quality ones which gives
you the ability to replace individual
links most of the cable chains aren't
design that way and basically it's all
just put together with aircraft-grade
cable what you see on the actual
traction links that wrap around the tire
these are sections of spring which is a
hardened material so it's a real hard
just cut up sections of spring put on
there and that will give a better bite
into ice and snow and because it's
hardened it'll last longer than wear on
the cable and so those are the basic two
types of chains that are available and
out on the market for the automotive
systems and they both have their pros
and cons and we'll get more in detail
into that I just wanted to get you
familiarized with them before we start
our training session please watch our
next session will cover the safety